
Why are plants considered as autotrophs?
Plants are autotrophs because they can produce their own food. Hence, they are our
great food providers. As you go through the activities in this module, you will understand how
plants provide food and help to make the flow of energy in the ecosystem possible.
You will understand how each plant structure helps in the process of food making as
well as factors that may affect the rate of food production done by plants.

How do human beings prepare their food?
Human beings cook their food by combining all the ingredients and usually in the
presence of heat.
How about plants? In what way do they produce their food?
Photosynthesis is a process of food making done by plants and other autotrophic
organisms. The presence of chlorophyll enables these organisms to make their own food.
Autotrophic organisms require light energy, carbon dioxide (CO2), and water (H2O) to make
food (sugar).

In plants, photosynthesis primarily takes place in the leaves and little or none in stems
depending on the presence of chlorophyll. The typical part of the leaves includes the upper
and lower epidermis, mesophyll spongy layer, vascular bundles and stomatas. The upper and
lower epidermis protects the leaves. Mesophyll has the most number of chloroplasts that
contain the chlorophyll. They are important in trapping light energy from the sun. Vascular
bundles- phloem and xylem serve as transporting vessels of manufactured food and water.
Carbon dioxide and oxygen were collected in the spongy layer and exits the leaf through the
stomata.
The parts of the chloroplast include outer and inner membranes, intermembrane
space, stroma and thylakoids stacked in grana. The chlorophyll is built in to the membranes
of the thylakoids. Chlorophyll absorbs white light but it looks green because white light consists
of three primary colors: red, blue and green. Only red and blue light are absorbed and used in
photosynthesis while the green light is reflected making the chlorophyll appear green.
 
The Light Reaction of Photosynthesis
The process of photosynthesis happens in two separate but interdependent reactions.
The first phase is the light reaction.
The light reactions are a series of steps that start with the trapping of light energy. It
takes place only when light is present. The end products of this phase are the needed
materials in the dark reaction simultaneously:
1. Chlorophyll absorbs the units of light called photons.

2. The energy from the photons “excites” the electrons of the chlorophyll molecules
causing the electrons to transfer to a higher energy level.
3. Electrons from a high energy level move to lower energy level. Electrons release
energy. This energy is utilized to form Adenosine triphosphate (ATP).
4. Water molecules split into hydrogen and oxygen.

Dark Reactions
These reactions can take place even without light. Here, light is not necessary anymore
once the hydrogen atom had been formed. Thus, it is often called the dark phase.
The series of chemical events in the dark reactions forms a cycle known as the Calvin
Cycle. In the stroma, carbon dioxide combines with a five carbon (5-C) sugar molecule and
eventually forms two molecules of a three-carbon (3-C) acid. The 3-C acid is then reduced by
NADPH with the use of the energy from the ATP into two molecules of a 3-C sugar.