Metaparadigm in Nursing  Person   Johnson views a person as having two major systems: the biological system and the behavioral system. It is the role of the medicine to focus on the biological system, whereas  nursing’s  focus  is  on  the  behavioral  system.  There  is  recognition  of  the reciprocal actions that occur between the biological and behavioral systems when some type of dysfunction occurs in one or the other of the systems.  Health   Health  is an  elusive state that is affected by  social, psychological, biological, and the physiological factors. Johnson’s behavioral model supports the idea that the individual is striving to retain some balance or equilibrium. The individual’s goal is to sustain the entire behavioral system efficiently and effectively but with an adequate amount of flexibility to return to an acceptable balance if a malfunction disrupts the original balance.  Environment  According to Johnson, an individual’s behavior is influenced by all the events in the  environment.  Cultural  influences  on  the  individual’s  behavior  are  viewed  as profound. However, it is evident that there are many factors that influence specific behaviors  in  a  group  of  people.  These  factors  are  believed  to  vary  from  culture  to culture although the outcomes for all the groups or individuals are the same.  Nursing   The  primary  goal  of  nursing  is  to  cultivate  equilibrium  within  the  individual, which  allows  for the  practice of nursing with individuals at any  point in  the health-illness continuum. Nursing implementations may focus on correction of a behavior that is not concerned to maintaining equilibrium for the individual. In earlier works, Johnson focused nursing on impaired individuals. By 1980, she stated that nursing is concerned with the organized and integrated whole or holistic growth of the individual, but that the chief focus is on maintaining a balance in the behavioral system when illness occurs in the individual.  Behavioral System Model Theory   Johnson believes that each individual has a focusing and repeating ways of acting which covers a behavioral system distinct to that individual. These actions or behaviors from the outstanding thoughts- out and included functional unit that determines and defines the relations between the person and his environment and establishes the bond of  the  person  to  the  object,  events,  and  circumstances  in  his  environment.  These behaviors are  logical, fixed, predictable and adequately secure and persistent to be satisfying to depiction and clarification. 
objects for the purpose of establishing an effective relationship with the environment. 4. Eliminative Subsystem ✔ Relate to behaviors surrounding the secretion of waste products from the body. ✔ Johnson concludes this may be tricky to separate from a biological system perspective ✔ However, as with behaviors surrounding the ingestion of food, there are socially adequate behaviors for the time and place for humans to excrete waste. ✔ Human cultures have defined different socially acceptable behaviors for excretion of waste, but the continuation of such an outline remains from culture to culture. 5. Sexual Subsystems ✔ Behavior associated with a specific gender based identity for the purpose of  ensuring  pleasure/procreation,  and  knowledge  and  behavior  being congruent with biological sex. ✔ Both biological  and  social  factors  are  involved  behaviors  in  the  sexual subsystem.  ✔ Again, the behaviors vary from culture to culture ✔ Behaviors vary according to the gender of an individual ✔ The key is that the goal in all societies has the same outcome-behaviors suitable to the society at large 6. Aggressive Protective Subsystem ✔ Behavior associated with real or potential threat in the environment for the purpose of ensuring survival. ✔ Protection of self through direct or indirect acts. ✔ Identification of potential danger. ✔ Relates to behaviors concerned with defense and self-preservation. ✔ Johnson  sees  this  subsystem  as  one  that  creates  a  defensive  response from the individual when life or territory is threatened.  ✔ The  aggressive  subsystem  does  not  include  those  behaviors  with  as primary  purpose  of  injuring  other  individuals,  but  rather  those  whose purpose is to protect and conserve self and society. 7. Achievement Subsystem ✔ Behavior associated with mastery of oneself and one’s environment for the purpose of producing a desired effect. ✔ Includes problem solving activity ✔ Knowledge of personal strengths and weaknesses. ✔ Contains behaviors that attempt to control the environment.  ✔ Intellectual, physical, imaginative, mechanical and communal skills are some of the areas that Johnson distinguishes.  ✔ Other  areas  of  personal  accomplishment  or  success  may  also  be integrated in this subsystem.